The last rousing policy we're going to cover is the multi value answer announcing policy which allows
you to configure around 50 free to return multiple values such as IP addresses in response DNS queries.
So that means that when you create multiple records under the same name and set them as multi value
multiple IP addresses of return to the client.
And what that means for the client is that they're able to then connect to one of those addresses and
they can perform client side load balancing so they can determine which IP address to connect to and
if one of them fails they can connect to a different server.
Now Ralph 53 can respond to DNS queries with up to eight healthy records and it can also give different
answers to different DNS resolves.
So if a Web server becomes unavailable after the resolve cashes their response the client software can
then try another IP address that was provided in that response so your client can then connect to wrap
50 free.
It gets given multiple values and it puts those into its cash and then tries one of them.
And as long as that's working that's great.
If it fails it can then try another policy so again what I mentioned before this is really a sort of
client side load balancing.
Now what Route 50 free also supports with multi value routing is health checks.
So the responses that come back will only include records that are healthy if you use health checks
so let's go back to the council now and we're going to set this up so I can create a record set.
I'm going to call it multi.
I'm going to paste in one of our IP addresses and this one is from North Virginia.
I want to change the TTL choose multi value given a set I.D. I call it multi one and I'm gonna associate
a health check in Virginia and so while that's happening let's go back over and take the IP address
for our Singapore instance and we're now going to create another record set called multi and we're going
to change the TTL paste in the IP change to multi-brand you answer call this one multi to and that's
associate the Singapore health check.
Now you may remember we can actually do this for the light balance so we can put in multi we can change
to alias and select the light balancer but then we found the multi value answer is that she cried out
so we can actually do that.
So we have these two records pointing to our service.
We've associated our health checks we have multi value all its assets yes and we can go a four and just
have a look at our health checks just to make sure yeah all serve as a healthy according to this and
then we go back to Hastings owns
and that all looks good.
So let's go to a command prompt and I'm going to talk Digg to take multi thought DCT lamps dot com
and there we go.
We get two records so we know that these are both healthy records so Ralph Fifty 50 free returns.
Both answers.
So what if I had to do something like I did before.
We're going to go over to one of the regions.
Let's head to and win North Virginia again.
So let's change to Singapore this time and we're going to go to our Singapore region Asia-Pacific
and I'm gonna go to security groups and I'm going to go into web access and I'm going to remove HDTV.
So now if we go back it's around 50 for a in a couple of minutes we're going to find this health check
starts telling us that the Singapore instance is unhealthy.
So it's been a few minutes and the resource is now showing us unhealthy.
So it does take a little bit of time because we're relying on health checks here.
And that's one of the reasons why I W.S. recommend that you don't use multi value routing policies as
a substitute for a load balancer
so let's go back to the command prompt and do a dig again for melted or these steel lapsed dot com and
sure enough now we only get one IP address and that's because the other record is unhealthy
so that's it for multi value routing.
Couple of things that you need to know about the behavior of around 50 free with multi value routing
policies.
Is that rule 50 free responds to DNS queries with the corresponding IP addresses.
Only when the health check is healthy.
Now if you don't associate a health check with an answer record rule 53 will always consider that record
to be healthy.
So that response will be returned regardless of whether the IP the instance is actually healthy or not.
And another thing if you have eight or fewer healthy records rule 50 free will respond to DNS queries
with all healthy records if all records are unhealthy round 50 free responds to DNS queries with up
to eight unhealthy records.
So those are just a few things to remember for the exam.
That's it for this lab and in the next lab which is going to go over shutting everything down and cleaning
up our lab.